h All of that. I will give you a big schema. I hope you all know what schema is, right? If I give you a schema, understand about what the company, what and all happened. And then you will be asked several questions. So you need to connect the data set to be query, and you need to start answering those questions. Use cte, use group by use window functions, whatever. I might ask you, what is the revenue generated by that company? And so on and so here. Which products were selling the most? Which, which city was performing the well, the best olive platelet And on top of that, if you still want to do all of. do all of that in query sequel. And then if you want to visualize it in tableau, also you can do that. It is up to you whatever you want to do. So that work, I will be giving you all. And once this is done, I will also be giving you module test. So module test is something where you, you will be asked 10 questions from sequel, and then question from table. It is going to be like an online test where you will get all the questions. And you have to, in real time, open table and do all those data set is given. Whatever answer you get, you have to select it out. So 20 questions of each of them. Once we complete these three is when sql and table is going to be completed. And you will all be judged based on these. You will be getting project for 100 months and you will be given a deadline to submit that module test is also going to be for 20 months, because 10 10 questions each. And that will be committed into 100 months. And then mop interview. Anyway, I will be giving you all the feedback as to where your weak zone is, where your strong zone is. Where should we be improvising? Clear. So this is going to be our next but again, I will tell you when I do all this again. We know we have time constraint. We have to go a little faster. So I cannot do all these things in the class. I will be doing off the class, all these things. And I want you guys to also be different. Cool.