Group by 
# Now, what is goodbye? What is good by? What do you understand by the meaning group? Yes. So basically, looping the data. The granularity is no more individual. The granular data is no more individual. So you basically group the data on basis of certain attributes. So you group the data well down a certain attribute. Now, what could be like? What do you mean by grouping it based on certain attributes? Same data type. Anything is. when you understand group what comes to your mind? Say, MF, where in this is zero. Yeah, where it could be. You can obviously use same kind of values, but we are grouping on something. Yeah, aggregation is a function that we can use after group fit. But first we need to understand what is grouping. latency. That is joints. That is joints. distinctive, distinctive. When you want to find something particular. you notice you can search it. The unique of whatever is there in the entire room You can do that, right? Anything else? What do you understand by the term goodbye? People online. If you do not speak, this does not make sense. I do not know what are even doing there. Why do not you come up? I want you guys to feel like you are physically present here. Not. inside a laptop where I do not care for you guys. So it is not like that. I am asking a question. What is group by like what do you understand? What is grouping? by saying that is negative. Group of rows. Yes, very good. So that is why I want to look open up here. You almost try almost right. Yeah. Prince you are saying something. You are similar in getting the data that we all want. So now when I ask you all in table. get all the customer purchases. Yet all the customer purchases We used to get a data like this. What was the granularity of each row? columns. Customer ID transaction time. sale amount. and the product name. and may be sitting here. Now I have this. I have like 1 million rows. What is the granularity of this data? Anyone. No idea what granularity. So when I say granularity, it means you just need to see how the data is here in each row. Is it transaction level, transaction level? Every single transaction level, if I am taking a role like this, can I say this is all transaction? It could have a date here, date, date column. So first of April when I take this, can I say this customer id? 123 on first of April, purchase this. And this was the total amount. This was the product that he bought. And he is from the city. Can I say this? The granularity of data is that every customer purchase. level per date. That is what is granularity. Here you are getting every single records of all the purchases. Now, can I say on the same date? The date can have, first of every some 10 times, 20 times Yes, there could be more dates similar to this. And the same customer would have purchased multiple times Yes, yes. And transaction ids could be unique for all of that. Correct? And there could be different products that he has purchased, correct? Now here, the granularity of the data is every single transactional level. Now, if I am telling you for this one, this one, get me like, wait, let me write this. So first What is unique in this customer id? Customer id could be unique, but unique for this. Now, if I am telling you how many cells, how many customers came and purchased on 1st of February, what would you say? Just group it by. How many? How many transactions have appended on first step? So we can say there are two transactions happened on 1st April. How. many customers came on. This is one customer who came and bought it. Correct Now, if I tell you how many products were sold, 1 product. unique, unique is one product. One product was sold that day. Correct? But if I tell you how many. customers came and shocked on 3rd of April. So we have two right now. If I tell you how many products were sold. we have two different products. Yes And if we tell you how many different categories were sold? 2nd 2. Now, if I tell you, tell me day wise Day wise tell me what is the count of purchases that happened Device count of purchases that happened. The first April 2. 2nd April 2 2nd April. 2 3rd April 2 3rd April 2. Assume I have another one here. 4. metal is going to be one. Yes Nowadays. What is happening now? What is happening here is you are grouping the data here for a particular attribute. So you do not want every single. record of the table. You just want to group it for market date and try to fetch what is the total sales that happened. For example if the sales over here 5030 forty thirty fifteen hundred now if I tell you what is the sale happened on 1st April. it is 80 right it was possible by because you grouped it 4 plus April U. of group did and you are taking some of sales now assume you are not grouping it and I am telling you give me the sum of the total sales that happened. it will take all what would happen it will take the entire column column column right it will fit the entire column Now you might tell me Sir I put well condition. sum of sales where there could be. for now I am telling you I need a data like this granular ring where you give different groups like first April 2nd April 3rd April 4th April and I need the shares like this sum of sales for each date Now can you use wear here that is. exactly where group by comes into picture. So you basically group the data if I am telling you I want to see the total sales that happened for a category on each day I can tell you how many unique customers came and bought a product on each day. I can ask how many unique product ids were sold on each day. Now, if the data is like this, can you do anything? Because you are getting it for each and every transaction. Why? Why do we need group by so that you change this data into. a smaller data like how in taboo the moment you drag product category the entire data is to be just power category then you drag product subcategory then the data is getting broken down yes just like that here you have granularity per customer transaction. Here you are going to shrink the data and group it according to what the question is asking do you want it customer wise day wise sales or do you want date wise sales or do you want date wise customer wise sales there could be different permutations and combinations in which you group it. understood this yes yes what what is grouping? It is a phenomenal where you increase the granularity of the data you. increase the granularity of the data for the desired attribute So you have it entirely but here you have it group once we see the syntax. Now is this clear part? Is this called clear everyone.